ACD-416 (#6)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/04_ManageFiscalYear.md

[!!Order management](../../RetailSuiteFaktBase/Overview/01_General.md)  
[!!User Interface Select fiscal year](../UserInterface/00a_FiscalYear.md)  
[!!User Interface Settings fiscal years](../UserInterface/02d_FiscalYears.md)  
[!!Select fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md)  

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lalal
```
Kommentar

# Manage the fiscal year

The fiscal year is set up during the configuration process via the accounting wizard. For detailed information, see [Fiscal years](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md#fiscal-years). After the initial fiscal year is set up during configuration, any subsequent fiscal years must be created manually. Fiscal years can also edited and deleted if necessary.

## Create a fiscal year

You can create a fiscal year that is not yet available in the system.

> > [Info] It is essential to create a new fiscal year in the system at the beginning of the new fiscal year. If the system cannot find a fiscal year to post any newly issued invoices, they will remain unrecognized and will have to be posted again manually via the *Invoicing* module, once the new fiscal year has been created.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> [Info] It is essential to create a new fiscal year in the system at the beginning of the new fiscal year. If the system cannot find a fiscal year to post any newly issued invoices or postings, they will remain unrecognized and will have to be posted again manually via the *Invoicing* module, once the new fiscal year has been created. It is also not possible to post "balance carried forward" from the previous year if no new fiscal year is created. 
```

3. Click the *Currency* drop-down list and select the base currency. The drop-down list displays all currencies configured in the system. However, the accounting module works with the base currency only.

 > [Info] The base currency is the currency used by a company for accounting purposes, usually the currency of the country where the business is primarily based, even if it operates in other countries and currencies.

4. Click the *Cash accounting* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:

  - **Yes**  
  Select this option for the cash accounting method, where receipts are recorded during the period they are received, and expenses are recorded in the period in which they are actually paid.
  - **No**  
  Select this option for the accrual accounting method, where revenue is recognized when earned rather than when collected, and expenses are recognized when incurred rather than when paid.

    > [Info] This option has fundamental implications for the system automatic recording of taxes. In case of doubt, please check with your tax advisor.

> 

Reviewer 2: see comments in chapter "integration"

[!!Fakturierung](RetailSuiteFaktBase)  
[!!User Interface select fiscal year](../UserInterface/00a_FiscalYear.md)  
[!!User Interface settings fiscal years](../UserInterface/02d_FiscalYears.md)  
[!!Select fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md)  

# Manage the fiscal year

The fiscal year is set up during the configuration process via the accounting wizard. For detailed information, see [Fiscal years](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md#fiscal-years). After the initial fiscal year is set up during configuration, any subsequent fiscal years must be manually created. It is essential to create a new fiscal year in the system at the beginning of the new fiscal year.

> [Info] If the system cannot find a fiscal year to book any newly issued invoices, they will remain unrecognized and will have to be booked again manually via the *Invoicing* module, once the new fiscal year has been created.  

## Create a fiscal year

> You can create a fiscal year that is not yet available in the system.

Reviewer: Der zweite Teil der allgemeinen Info gehört vielmehr unter den Header *Create a fiscal year* Dafür fehlt im allgemeinen Teil die Info, was man alles machen kann - sprich anlegen, bearbeiten, löschen.

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md).

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab FISCAL YEARS*

![Create a fiscal year](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/FiscalYears/CreateFiscalYear.png "[Create a fiscal year]")

1. Enter a description for the fiscal year in the *Description* field.

 > [Info] It is possible to enter digits, letters or combinations of characters. The number of characters is limited to 10.

> 2.  Enter the starting and finishing date of your fiscal year in the *From - To* fields. The fiscal year shown by default is the current calendar year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Enter the start and end date of your fiscal year in the *From - To* fields. By default, the current calendar year is preselected as time period for the fiscal year.
```

>   > [Info] The fiscal year must consist of 12 months. However, it does not have to be a calendar year, for example from 1st April to 31st March.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] The fiscal year must consist of 12 months. However, it does not have to be a calendar year, but can be, for example from April 1 to March 31.
```

>   > [Info] Fiscal years cannot overlap in time, for example, fiscal years 2022 and 2022-2023 cannot coexist. If two fiscal years overlap, an error message will be displayed. However, a fiscal year for planning purposes can overlap in time with actual fiscal years.

Reviewer: Keine zwei Infos hintereinander. Irgendwie anders lösen. Also entweder die Info an einer anderen Stelle einfügen oder die Zwei Infos zu einer zusammenführen.

> 3. Click the *Currency* drop-down list and select the base currency. The drop-down list displays all currencies configured in the system. However, the accounting module works with the base currency only.

Reviewer: s.o. was ist die base currency/wo wird das eingestellt.

4. Click the *Cash accounting* drop-down list and select the appropriate option (**No/Yes**).

  > [Info] The cash accounting refers to a method where receipts are recorded during the period they are received, and expenses are recorded in the period in which they are actually paid. This contrasts accrual accounting, where revenue is recognized when earned rather than when collected, and expenses are recognized when incurred rather than when paid.

  > [Warning] This option has fundamental implications for the system automatic recording of taxes. In case of doubt, please check with your tax advisor.

5. Click the *Planning FY* drop-down list and select the appropriate option (**No/Fiscal year for planning purposes only**).   

  > [Info] Note that a fiscal year can be set up for planning purposes only. However, the fiscal year for planning purposes will not be recognized as an actual fiscal year by the system, and therefore the automatic functions in the interaction with other modules will not apply.

6. Click the [SAVE & NEW] button.  

> The new fiscal year is created. A small pop-up window confirms that the new fiscal year has been saved. The newly created fiscal year is displayed in the list.

Reviewer: vgl. Kapitel 01_RunAccountingWizard.md

## Edit a fiscal year

You can edit an available fiscal year, for example if a setting must be changed.

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md).
- A valid fiscal year is created, see [Create a fiscal year](#create-a-fiscal-year).

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab FISCAL YEARS*

![Edit a fiscal year](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/FiscalYears/EditFiscalYear.png "[Edit a fiscal year]")

> 1. Click on the existing fiscal year to be edited.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on the fiscal year to be edited.   
```

> The existing data for the selected fiscal year are displayed in the corresponding fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data for the selected fiscal year are displayed in the corresponding fields.
```

>     > [Warning] Be aware that any changes made to an existing fiscal year will overwrite the preset values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > [Info] Be aware that any changes made to an existing fiscal year will overwrite the preset values.
```

2. Edit the fields as appropriate.

3. Click the [SAVE] button.   
The fiscal year has been edited. The edited fiscal year is displayed in the list.

## Delete a fiscal year

> You can delete an existing fiscal year, for example if it is no longer applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can delete a fiscal year, for example if it is no longer applicable.
```

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md).
- A valid fiscal year is created, see [Create a fiscal year](#create-a-fiscal-year).

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab FISCAL YEARS*

> ![Delete a fiscal year](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/FiscalYears/DeleteFiscalYear.png "[Delete a fiscal year]")

Reviewer: Warum ein anderer Screenshot als bei Edit a fiscal year?

1. Select the fiscal year to be deleted.

>   > [Warning] Be aware that the existing fiscal year will be deleted permanently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Warning] Be aware that the fiscal year will be deleted permanently.
```
Erst nach Schritt2

2. Click the [DELETE] button.  

> The selected fiscal year will be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selected fiscal year is deleted.
```

>   The selected fiscal year has been be deleted.

Author: ```suggestion
  The selected fiscal year has been deleted.
```
